README.md, before:

# Kids-Haven-Organization-Part-2
Kids Haven provides invaluable care and support for children, young people and families in Benoni and across the Ekurhuleni metro. Since its inception in 1992 as a shelter for street children, the organisation has expanded to a Child and Youth Care Facility with space for 170 children and young people needing protection and care.
Kids Haven goes beyond providing care in the Child and Youth Care Facility by working to support families in creating safe, nurturing homes for children and continuing to offer care and support to children and young people after they leave the facility.
Family care: Kids Haven’s pre-school is a free, registered early childhood development (ECD) centre for families who cannot afford school fees and would not otherwise send their children to pre-school.
Residential care: . The children attend school, engage in sports, dance, and drama, and are encouraged to support one another and show generosity. Efforts are made to reconnect families with their children under supervision, with the goal of reunification. By applying a tried-and-tested methodology of structure and routine, Kids Haven creates an environment conducive to behavioural change – the perfect place for children to practice positive behaviour while thriving in a supportive community.
Youth care: This focusses on employability and skills development, there are various activities offered by the organization for the youth's character development.
(https://kidshaven.co.za)

**KIDS HAVEN ORGANIZATION PART 3**
# Kids Haven Website

## Project Overview
This website was developed to support **Kids Haven**, a nonprofit organization based in South Africa that provides care and shelter for vulnerable children. The project aims to create an emotionally engaging, accessible, and functional platform that reflects the organization’s values and services.

## Purpose
The site serves as a digital gateway for:
- Community engagement
- Volunteer and donation enquiries
- Sharing Kids Haven’s mission and team
- Providing contact and service information

##  Live Demo
[View the live site](#) *(Insert link if hosted)*

##  Tech Stack
- **HTML5** – Semantic structure and accessibility
- **CSS3** – Responsive design and styling
- **JavaScript** – Form validation and interactivity
- **GitHub** – Version control and documentation
- 
##  Features
### Core Pages
- **Homepage**: Includes testimonials and emotional messaging
- **About Us**: Features embedded YouTube video and team section
- **Contact Us**: Functional form with validation
- **Enquiry Page**: Dropdown-based enquiry types
- **Services Offered**: Clear layout of Kids Haven’s support programs

### Functionality & SEO (Part 3 Improvements)
- **JavaScript Enhancements**:
  - Client-side form validation
  - Interactive hover effects and responsive menu behavior
- **SEO Optimization**:
  - Meta tags for each page
  - Alt text for all images
  - Keyword-rich headings and semantic HTML
- **Functional Forms**:
  - Required fields and placeholders
  - JavaScript validation for user input
- **External Integrations**:
  - Embedded YouTube video introducing Kids Haven
  - Future plans for Google Maps integration
git commit -m "Added JavaScript validation to enquiry form"

**Responsive & Downloadable Images**
This project now supports responsive images that are also click-to-download enabled.
 How It Works:
- All <img> elements are styled to be fully responsive.
- A JavaScript script dynamically wraps each image in a download link.
- Users can click any image to download it directly.
**Files Involved:**
- style.css: Contains responsive image styles and hover effects.
- script.js: Automatically wraps all images in download anchors on page load.
- index.html: No manual changes needed to image tags.

---

## Additional Notes
- Homepage with testimonials
- Contact Us form
- Team section with image cards
- All inline styles were moved to kidshaven.css for consistency.
- Shared styles include fonts, colors, layout, buttons, and responsive rules.
- CSS file includes default styles for body, headings, links, and containers.
-Team section styled with cards
-Form and social links styled
-Service blocks styled with consistent layout
-Form fields and buttons styled
-Quotes styled with custom fonts and spacing
## Setup Instructions

To run the project locally:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/kids-haven.git
cd kids-haven
open index.html

**REFERENCES**
Kids Haven. (n.d.). *About Us*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://kidshaven.co.za

W3Schools. (n.d.). *HTML Forms*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_forms.asp

Mozilla Developer Network. (n.d.). *CSS Grid Layout*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout

W3Schools. (n.d.). *JavaScript Form Validation*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_validation.asp

Google Developers. (n.d.). *SEO Starter Guide*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://developers.google.com/search/docs/fundamentals/seo-starter-guide

The Independent Institute of Education (Pty) Ltd. (2025). *Web Development and Project Management Guide*. Page 4 of 42.

Commit message:

Document form handling in Contact & Enquiry sections
Added details about the Contact Us and Enquiry forms, including validation, success messages, and styling.

README.md, after:

# Kids-Haven-Organization-Part-2
Kids Haven provides invaluable care and support for children, young people and families in Benoni and across the Ekurhuleni metro. Since its inception in 1992 as a shelter for street children, the organisation has expanded to a Child and Youth Care Facility with space for 170 children and young people needing protection and care.
Kids Haven goes beyond providing care in the Child and Youth Care Facility by working to support families in creating safe, nurturing homes for children and continuing to offer care and support to children and young people after they leave the facility.
Family care: Kids Haven’s pre-school is a free, registered early childhood development (ECD) centre for families who cannot afford school fees and would not otherwise send their children to pre-school.
Residential care: . The children attend school, engage in sports, dance, and drama, and are encouraged to support one another and show generosity. Efforts are made to reconnect families with their children under supervision, with the goal of reunification. By applying a tried-and-tested methodology of structure and routine, Kids Haven creates an environment conducive to behavioural change – the perfect place for children to practice positive behaviour while thriving in a supportive community.
Youth care: This focusses on employability and skills development, there are various activities offered by the organization for the youth's character development.
(https://kidshaven.co.za)

**KIDS HAVEN ORGANIZATION PART 3**
# Kids Haven Website

## Project Overview
This website was developed to support **Kids Haven**, a nonprofit organization based in South Africa that provides care and shelter for vulnerable children. The project aims to create an emotionally engaging, accessible, and functional platform that reflects the organization’s values and services.

## Purpose
The site serves as a digital gateway for:
- Community engagement
- Volunteer and donation enquiries
- Sharing Kids Haven’s mission and team
- Providing contact and service information

##  Live Demo
[View the live site](#) *(Insert link if hosted)*

##  Tech Stack
- **HTML5** – Semantic structure and accessibility
- **CSS3** – Responsive design and styling
- **JavaScript** – Form validation and interactivity
- **GitHub** – Version control and documentation
- 
##  Features
### Core Pages
- **Homepage**: Includes testimonials and emotional messaging
- **About Us**: Features embedded YouTube video and team section
- **Contact Us**: Functional form with validation
- **Enquiry Page**: Dropdown-based enquiry types
- **Services Offered**: Clear layout of Kids Haven’s support programs

### Functionality & SEO (Part 3 Improvements)
- **JavaScript Enhancements**:
  - Client-side form validation
  - Interactive hover effects and responsive menu behavior
- **SEO Optimization**:
  - Meta tags for each page
  - Alt text for all images
  - Keyword-rich headings and semantic HTML
- **Functional Forms**:
  - Required fields and placeholders
  - JavaScript validation for user input
- **External Integrations**:
  - Embedded YouTube video introducing Kids Haven
  - Future plans for Google Maps integration
git commit -m "Added JavaScript validation to enquiry form"

**Responsive & Downloadable Images**
This project now supports responsive images that are also click-to-download enabled.
 How It Works:
- All <img> elements are styled to be fully responsive.
- A JavaScript script dynamically wraps each image in a download link.
- Users can click any image to download it directly.
**Files Involved:**
- style.css: Contains responsive image styles and hover effects.
- script.js: Automatically wraps all images in download anchors on page load.
- index.html: No manual changes needed to image tags.

---
### Contact & Enquiry Forms

The Contact Us and Enquiry pages now use JavaScript to handle form submissions without relying on a backend server.

- Forms validate key fields before submission.
- A success message appears after valid input.
- No data is sent to a server — this is a simulated submission for demonstration purposes.
- Buttons are styled for responsiveness and accessibility.

To enable real submissions, you can integrate a service like [Formspree](https://formspree.io) or [Google Forms].
## Additional Notes
- Homepage with testimonials
- Contact Us form
- Team section with image cards
- All inline styles were moved to kidshaven.css for consistency.
- Shared styles include fonts, colors, layout, buttons, and responsive rules.
- CSS file includes default styles for body, headings, links, and containers.
-Team section styled with cards
-Form and social links styled
-Service blocks styled with consistent layout
-Form fields and buttons styled
-Quotes styled with custom fonts and spacing
## Setup Instructions

To run the project locally:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/kids-haven.git
cd kids-haven
open index.html

**REFERENCES**
Kids Haven. (n.d.). *About Us*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://kidshaven.co.za

W3Schools. (n.d.). *HTML Forms*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_forms.asp

Mozilla Developer Network. (n.d.). *CSS Grid Layout*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout

W3Schools. (n.d.). *JavaScript Form Validation*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_validation.asp

Google Developers. (n.d.). *SEO Starter Guide*. Retrieved November 16, 2025, from https://developers.google.com/search/docs/fundamentals/seo-starter-guide

The Independent Institute of Education (Pty) Ltd. (2025). *Web Development and Project Management Guide*. Page 4 of 42.
